feat(documentation): March newsletter. (#6252)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/04/10/2023-04-10-jenkins-newsletter.adoc

* PowerPC docker images are back.
* The Jenkins board, members of the Jenkins security team, and several others were involved in resolving an incorrect claim against a repository of the Jenkins GitHub organization.
* Jenkins 2.397 and 2.387.2 are both using new Linux repository signing keys.
* The Pipeline graph view plugin continues to evolve and improve as a Pipeline visualization replacement for Blue Ocean.
* The number of pull requests merged for jenkins.io crossed into triple digits (101).

[[Governance]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/governance.png[Governance Update]

Contributed by: author:markewaite[Mark Waite]

Jenkins' installers for Debian, and Red Hat have all been signed with new code PGP private keys.
See the Jenkins link:/blog/2023/03/27/repository-signing-keys-changing/[blog post] for more details.
The Jenkins installer for Windows and the Jenkins war file have also been signed with a new code signing certificate issued by DigiCert.
Thanks to the Continuous Delivery Foundation for their help with the new code signing certificate.

The Chinese translation of the Jenkins documentation has been unmaintained for almost two years.

> Rather than risk continuing bug reports from Chinese users that are following outdated instructions, we’ve removed the link to the outdated Chinese site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rather than risk continuing bug reports from Chinese users that are following outdated instructions, we've removed the link to the outdated Chinese site.
```
Nit, I would do a global replace from `’` to `'`

The link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/pipeline-graph-view/[Pipeline graph view plugin] continues to evolve and improve as a Pipeline visualization replacement for Blue Ocean.
It now includes progressive viewing of log files.
Thanks to link:https://github.com/timbrown5[Tim Brown] for the improvements.

The link:https://weekly.ci.jenkins.io/manage/about/[“About Jenkins”] page in Jenkins weekly releases now includes a link:https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43062514/224480863-9e8e893a-c78a-4511-98c3-b672bedef80a.png[new image] and an invitation to “get involved” with the Jenkins project.

The link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/7718[Jenkins icon legend] is now a modal dialog in Jenkins weekly releases.
The modal dialog does not move the user away from the current page.
Expect to see more modal dialogs in Jenkins in the future.

More Jenkins messages have been translated into Turkish thanks to link:https://github.com/mustafau[Mustafa Ulu].
They have been released in Jenkins weekly releases in March.

> Support for link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/7299[user experimental flags] (“feature flags”) has been added to Jenkins core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support for link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/7299[user experimental flags] ("feature flags") has been added to Jenkins core.
```

Developers can deliver new features and allow users to enable or disable those features for their own account.
Thanks to Wadeck Follonier for the implementation and thanks to all those who reviewed and helped with the pull request.

[[documentation]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/02/07/2023-02-07-jenkins-newsletter/documentation.png[Documentation Update]
Contributed by: author:kmartens27[Kevin Martens]

Over the course of March, there were 7 blog posts published, featuring several different authors.
link:/blog/authors/gounthar/[Bruno Verachten] has shared his experiences using Jenkins in intriguing ways, as well as starting a new series of posts regarding Android and Jenkins.

> We also crossed into triple digits (101) for the number of pull requests merged for jenkins.io alone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also crossed into triple digits (101) for the number of pull requests merged this month for jenkins.io alone.
```

Over the course of March, the Jenkins platform saw several updates and improvements. These improvements include:

* Jenkins 2.397 and 2.387.2 both using new Linux repository signing keys.
** There is a link:/blog/2023/03/27/repository-signing-keys-changing/[great article] by author:markewaite[Mark Waite] to explain why the keys have changed and how to update accordingly.
** Nothing has to be done for Jenkins Docker installation, because the key is not required for container installations, as we manage the service ourselves in the container, now thanks to systemd.
* Docker end of OSS images (link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/helpdesk/issues/3457[Docker announcement] with later changes)
** The old jenkinsci handle could have gone away, as it was not protected by OSS organization, before Docker changed their mind.
** Jenkins4Eval may go, as it is dangerous and not really needed.
*** At this time, it is for a very niche use.
* Ppc64le: has made some nice progress. Thank you so much for your contribution link:https://github.com/ksalerno99[Kenneth]!
** docker-agent: link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/pull/391[PR] reviewed, checks have passed.

> ** docker-ssh-agent : link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/pull/220[PR] reviewed, checks have passed too.
> ** Inbound-agent : link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-inbound-agent/pull/339[PR] reviewed, checks will pass once the docker-agent PR will be accepted.
> ** Controller link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker/pull/1586[PR] is done as well, checks have passed too. It shouldn’t be long until all these PRs make it into the next release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** docker-ssh-agent: link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/pull/220[PR] reviewed, checks have passed too.
** Inbound-agent: link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-inbound-agent/pull/339[PR] reviewed, checks will pass once the docker-agent PR will be accepted.
** Controller: link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker/pull/1586[PR] is done as well, checks have passed too. 
It shouldn’t be long until all of these PRs make it into the next release.
```
suggestion for formatting/removing unneeded spaces

** Welcome to the community Kenneth, we’re delighted to have you onboard!
* Alpine aarch64 images link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/issues/397[issue]:
** We’ve been following the progress for a few months now, and it looks like it won’t be solved soon.
Temurin needs help to get this back on track.
In the meantime, we have other Debian based images that can do the job.
* Windows MSI installer code signing certificate updated (also signs jar file):
** Windows users expect their installers to be signed/secured (because of malwares and so on).

> The certificate has unfortunately expired a few days ago. Fortunately, Mark Waite and other members of the community managed to get a new one, so the latest weekly release is signed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The certificate had unfortunately expired recently.
Fortunately, Mark Waite and other members of the community managed to get a new one, so the latest weekly release is signed.
```
suggestion for formatting/syntax

> ** Lawyers had to be involved, the process is now complete
> ** Jar file won’t be signed (low impact, low risk)
> ** MSI installer is signed with new key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Lawyers had to be involved, but the process is now complete.
** The Jar file will not be signed (low impact, low risk).
** The  MSI installer is signed with the new key.
```
formatting suggestions

* Latest updates on the agent images:
** Ssh-agent link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/releases/tag/4.13.0[release 4.13.0]

> *** chore(deps): bump debian from bullseye-20230208 to bullseye-20230320 in /8/11/17bullseye (link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/pull/222[#222]) link:https://github.com/dependabot[@dependabot]
> ** Docker-agent release link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/releases/tag/3107.v665000b_51092-6[3107.v665000b_51092-6]
> *** chore(deps): bump archlinux from base-20230226 to base-20230319.0.135218 in /11/archlinux (link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/pull/393[#393]) link:https://github.com/dependabot[@dependabot]
> *** chore(deps): bump debian from bullseye-20230227 to bullseye-20230320 in /11/17/bullseye (link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/pull/394[#394]) link:https://github.com/dependabot[@dependabot]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** chore(deps): bump debian from bullseye-20230208 to bullseye-20230320 in /8/11/17bullseye (link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/pull/222[#222])
** Docker-agent release link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/releases/tag/3107.v665000b_51092-6[3107.v665000b_51092-6]
*** chore(deps): bump archlinux from base-20230226 to base-20230319.0.135218 in /11/archlinux (link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/pull/393[#393])
*** chore(deps): bump debian from bullseye-20230227 to bullseye-20230320 in /11/17/bullseye (link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/pull/394[#394])
```
I don't think we need to have dependabot linked in the newsletter

* Experiments with RISC-V have link:/blog/2023/03/10/miniJen-and-RISC-V/[progressed].

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
remove unnecessary blank line

[[outreach]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/outreach-and-advocacy.png[Outreach and advocacy Update]

Contributed by: author:alyssat[Alyssa Tong]

link:https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/20x[*SCALE 20X#*]

> So thrilled to have been back at the usual spot (Pasadena Convention Center, CA) for SCALE this year, an added bonus were visits from special friends 🥰, Kohsuke Kawaguchi & Arun Gupta 🎉

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So thrilled to have been back at the usual spot (Pasadena Convention Center, CA) for SCALE this year, an added bonus were visits from special friends 🥰, Kohsuke Kawaguchi & Arun Gupta 🎉!
```
punctuation suggestion

Many thanks to the Jenkins fans for stopping by the booth to let us know how much they love Jenkins!
Special thanks to the SCALE committee for being a wonderful host! 🚀

image:/images/post-images/2023/04/10/2023-04-10-jenkins-newsletter/image2.jpg[image,width=291,height=219]image:/images/post-images/2023/04/10/2023-04-10-jenkins-newsletter/image3.jpg[image,width=235,height=314]

image:/images/post-images/2023/04/10/2023-04-10-jenkins-newsletter/image4.jpg[image,width=213,height=160]image:/images/post-images/2023/04/10/2023-04-10-jenkins-newsletter/image5.jpg[image,width=173,height=130]

*Jenkins in Google Summer of Code (GSoC)*

> If you lurk on the Jenkins GSoC Gitter channel, you will be quite surprised at the level of engagement on this channel…it is anything but quiet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you lurk on the Jenkins GSoC Gitter channel, you will be quite surprised at the level of engagement on this channel... It is anything but quiet.
```

The hustle and bustle indicates the level of interest in Jenkins in GSoC.
Here’s where we currently stand:

> * We’ve received 34 draft proposals for mentors to review
> * 16 proposals submitted via the Google Summer of Code portal.
> * Submissions are accepted until April 4 @ 1800 UTC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We’ve received 34 draft proposals for mentors to review.
* 16 proposals have been submitted via the Google Summer of Code portal.
* Submissions are accepted until April 4 @ 1800 UTC.
```
should this information be updated due to the deadline being passed now? I think the total number of proposals is 55 valid submissions based on what @jmMeessen had shared.

*Jenkins Awards*

image:/images/post-images/2023/04/10/2023-04-10-jenkins-newsletter/image1.png[image,width=624,height=158]

> The list of nominations for the Jenkins Contributor Awards is quite impressive this year, there’s more people being nominated than previous years. We want to thank and congratulate all nominees, your contributions are seen, recognized and appreciated.
> 
> We also had more people voting this year than ever before.
> Thank you to everyone who took the time to vote! Voting is now closed.
> Results will be announced on May 8-9 at link:https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon-gitopscon/[cdCon].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The list of nominations for the Jenkins Contributor Awards is quite impressive this year, with more people being nominated than ever before.
We want to thank and congratulate all nominees, your contributions are seen, recognized and appreciated!

We also had more people voting this year than in previous years.
Thank you to everyone who took the time to vote!
Voting is now closed, and the results will be announced on May 8-9 at link:https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon-gitopscon/[cdCon].
```
suggestion for formatting/some syntax

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins March 2023 Newsletter"
tags:
- jenkins
- newsletter
- community
- contribute
authors:
- alyssat
- dduportal
- kmartens27
- markewaite

> - gounthar

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- gounthar
- kguerroudj
```
